# Scrum Notes

## SCRUM Overview

There are many different parts to SCRUM. To operate a good SCRUM framework, each part needs to be incorporated successfully.

- **3 SCRUM Roles:**

  - Product Owner
  - Scrum Master
  - Development Team

- **5 SCRUM Events:**

  - Sprint Planning
  - Daily Standup
  - The Sprint
  - Sprint Review
  - Sprint Retrospective

- **3 SCRUM Artifacts:**

  - Sprint Backlog
  - Product Increment
  - Product Backlog

- **5 SCRUM Values:**

  - Focus: Focus on the work of the sprint and the goals of the team.
  - Openness: Open and Transparent about all work and challenges.
  - Respect: Respect each other to be capable at their jobs and responsibilities.
  - Commitment: Personally commit to achieving the goals of the SCRUM Team.
  - Courage: Courage to do the right thing and work on tough problems.

- **3 SCRUM Pillars:**

  - Transparency: Giving visibility of the entire process to those responsible for the outcome.
  - Inspection: Timely checks and inspections of the progress toward a sprint goal used to detect undesirable changes.
  - Adaption: Adjusting a process as soon as possible to minimize further deviation or issues.

## Scrum Roles

### Product Owner

The product owner is the expert on the product. He/she knows how the product operates, the direction it's stakeholders want it to go, and has a roadmap for getting there. Constant communications at all levels is important for this job.

Responsibilities:

- Managing a healthy product backlog.
- Answers product related questions.
- Communicates with stakeholders and the Dev Team consistently.
- Manages budget and release dates.
- Ensures the value of the team.
- Provides feedback at various levels of development.
- Respects commitments.

### Scrum Master

The Scrum Master is there to keep the team going and as productive as possible. They are there to be the multiplier. If you have a team which can produce 100 units of work. The Scrum Master is there to try to make that x2 or 200 units. They will do everything in their power to remove blocks, increase morale, and make sure everyone is upholding the tenets of SCRUM to keep things productive.

Responsibilities:

- Facilitates daily standup.
- Removes blocks for the team.
- Keeps the team happy, with high morale.
- Ensures all SCRUM values are being upheld.
- Sets up all SCRUM Meetings.
- Encourages collaboration between everyone.
- Is the mediator, coach, mentor, and guide.

### Development Team

The development team is there to create the product. They have the skills and expertise to make whatever needs to happen happen. These members should be as cross-functional as possible. This means everyone ideally should be able to accomplish every task. In programming this means full-stack engineers are best for this role.

Responsibilities:

- Collaborate with Product Owner to create and refine user stories.
- Writing code, and tests to fit expectations.
- Conducting research, design, and prototyping.
- Helping make decisions based on architectures, design, etc.
- Helping to develop and maintain current iterations.
