# Software Development Lifecycle Notes

## Software Development Lifecycle Intro

The typical software development lifecycle details how a piece of software is built. It covers inception, creation, and maintenance. This model is very high-level, meaning it covers only the large areas of the cycle. Each area can be further expanded to more specifically define the process.

This cycle does not have to be completed in order. There are many different ways to accomplish each task. Depending on the problem at hand, certain solutions will work better than others.

## Software Development Lifecycle Steps

- Requirements: This section covers how to define the problem at hand. Here we take the idea of the problem, and represent it into more concrete and real world explanations. For example, we might take the idea of a website, and come up with a list of things the website should be able to do.

- Design: After detailing the problem, we work on coming up with how we are going to solve that problem. In design we come up with the exact plans on how we can create a product which satisfies our requirements.

- Implementation: This is step where we actually begin creating the solution. Here we work on building out all areas set forth in the design step.

- Verification: With verification we work on making sure our solution actually solves the problem. We test the product, look for bugs, and adjust any areas which are incorrect.

- Maintenance: After verification, we launch the product. From this point on, we begin working on maintaining the product. Bugs will come up, and new features will need to be implemented. This part of the cycle can go on indefinitely.

## Lifecycle Importance

Knowing each step in this cycle is crucial for understanding the rest of the course, and software engineering in general. Every project needs to pay attention to each of these areas to be successful in the long-term.

### Additional Resources

- [SDLC - Overview](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sdlc/sdlc_overview.htm)
- [Software Engineering — Software Process and Software Process Models](https://medium.com/omarelgabrys-blog/software-engineering-software-process-and-software-process-models-part-2-4a9d06213fdc)
