# Software Architecture Notes

## Architecture Introduction

Architecture is the highest level of design within a system. It is the link between idea and reality. It takes our idea for the system, and creates a plan for it. We focus on only the largest areas of the system here. We want to break it down from idea, into concrete areas to build.

In software, bad architecture is something that CAN'T be fixed with good programming. It is a critical step within the development process. Once we decide on an architecture, we have to understand that it can't be changed.

This is the same in the real world. Imagine trying to change the foundation of the skyscraper once it's built. Same could be said about a bridge. Imagine trying to switch it from a suspension to a draw bridge after it's built. These changes would be impossible. The only way to implement them would be to destroy the product and start over.

## Architecture Overview

Software architecture is all about breaking up larger systems and ideas, into smaller focused systems. Our first step is to take the requirements, and build an initial architecture. We take this broad set of ideas and guidelines, and have to organize it into functioning areas.

Each of these areas are then put through the same process to break them up into smaller and smaller pieces. Eventually we will have a blueprint for the entire system designed.

Good architecture is hard. It takes a lot of resources to develop correctly. However, this upfront cost is almost always recovered from how maintainable the software is. This will reduce the amount of bugs, and the time to fix those bugs.

Good architecture also helps for faster development and better resource utilization. If we break up the project into small pieces, we will understand how to have multiple developers work at the same time on it.

Another benefit of breaking the project up is the idea of buy vs build. If we have for example 4 development teams. Through architecture design we have broke the project up into 5 different large projects. We go through each of these projects and learn that 1 of them has already been solved before and is for sale on the market. We can then allocate the 4 teams to the other ones, and just purchase the already created software, saving us time and money.

## Architecture Patterns

### Pipe-and-Filter

The pipe and filter pattern is a good pattern to use to process data through multiple different layers. The key to this pattern is the ability of each step to input, and output the same type of data. So if you send a set of numbers in one side, you will get a set of numbers out the other side.

This key constraint makes it so you can mix and match the logic in any order and still have the program work. These different filters can also be set up across multiple servers.

There is definitely an added complexity with this pattern. Setting it up can be tricky to get correct. Also, if the data is lost at any step, the entire process is broken.

More Information: [Pipes and Filters pattern](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/pipes-and-filters)

### Client-Server

The client-server pattern is one that is quite common today. Every single website and most phone apps use this architecture. With this pattern there are two parts to the software, the client, and the server.

Let's take an iPhone app for example. What you download in the app store is what is known as the "client software". This is the version of the app built to talk to the server. It doesn't store any of the server's data locally. It is just setup to make the appropriate server calls when necessary.

The other part of this is of course the "server software". This is the software that is installed onto a server to receive the requests from the client. The server holds and updates the data. It also processes requests, and sends the data to the clients. Servers have to be tuned correctly, as there can be a near unlimited number of clients requesting information.

This is a great pattern for accessing and updating a single repository of information. It's great of keeping track of accounts, and regulating which data is given automatically.

More Information: [Client-server model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client%E2%80%93server_model)

### Master-Slave

The master slave pattern consists of two elements, the master, and the slave. The master is in full control of all slaves associated with it. This is good for a multitude of different applications.

One such application is with duplicate backup servers. You don't want these backup servers all acting independently of one another. This will create a bunch of different states of memory. Each server will have a different set of data. Instead, you have a master server, which is the main server of operation.

The master server is the one dealing with all of the normal day to day operations. Then at some point during the day, it sends a signal out to all of the slave servers to tell them to begin their backup operation. The slave servers all start up, copy the data from the master server, and then go back to sleep.

This pattern is also used with "multi-threading". Here we break up an operation into a bunch of small parts. Each of those parts are given a thread and fed through the CPU. If a CPU has multiple cores, it can process multiple threads at the same time.

We typically have a master thread which controls the creation and tracking of all slave threads. The slaves do exactly what the master thread has told them. The master thread keeps reassessing the situation both creating and deleting slave threads. Once the operation is finished, the master thread ceases as well.

More Information: [Design Pattern: Master-Slave](http://www.openloop.com/softwareEngineering/patterns/designPattern/dPattern_MasterSlave.htm)

### Layered Pattern

The layered pattern consists of divvying up program into layers of technology. These layers only communicate with adjacent layers. Let's say we have an architecture with 9 layers. In this model, 8 would only be able to communicate with 9 and 7, 4 with 3 and 5, etc.

This simplifies the communication channels, and helps to better distinguish the areas of the program. Overall, this helps to make the program more maintainable. The downside to this, is that there can be of added complexity in some areas. For example, if you need to send a message from layer 1 to layer 9. There will have to be a function in each layer to pass that message along.

More Information: [Layered Architecture](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-architecture-patterns/9781491971437/ch01.html)

## Architecture Conclusion

There is no one size fits all plan when it comes to software development. The process must be taken on a case to case basis. Us, as engineers, seek to find the best pattern or set of patterns which solve the problem.

This process is an iterative one. We come up with an idea, get feedback, rework it, and repeat the process many times. After a series of iterations, we have the architecture that will work best for the problem.
