# Design and Modularity Notes

## Design Introduction

Once we have the architecture of the system set up, we can begin working on the design. The design is where we really plan out our system. We can go as detailed as possible in this step.

The main focus here is to break up the project into subsystems, and modules.

- Subsystem: Independent system which holds independent value.

- Module: Component of a subsystem which cannot function as a standalone.

For example, let's say in our architecture phase we separated the main project into 4 different areas. We would look into each of these 4 areas and come up with the subsystems that would be needed. We would then go into each of those subsystems and see if it can be broken into more subsystems. Eventually we will reach a level where we then come up with some modules that work together to accomplish the task of the subsystem.

Figuring out where to separate the program is one of the most difficult parts of software development. It's very easy to stick with the attempt. This however is just as bad as skipping design entirely, and doing as you program. This step should be iterative. We should slowly refine and reorganize the systems and sub-modules until they make the most sense. Having multiple engineers with multiple viewpoints working on this will help the process immensely.

## Information Hiding and Data Encapsulation

- Information Hiding: Hiding the complexity of the program inside of a "black box".

- Data Encapsulation: Hiding the implementation details from the user, providing only an interface.

Both of these work to hide the implementation details, and protect the integrity of the data. We want to control the flow of data, and provide the user with an easy to use experience.

Imagine on Facebook if you needed to know how to code to submit a new status update. No one would use it. So what we do is we encapsulate that function. We provide the user with an area to enter in a status message. Once the user hits the submit button, all of the code activates to make that status update permanent. All the user needs to do is enter text into the box and click a button.

With these ideas, we can take the most complex of code, and make it accessible to anyone. Doing this at each step in the design process also helps make the code easier to maintain.

With it implemented properly, we don't need to know the entire codebase to make a change. We only need to know the part of the program we are working on. The encapsulation of all the other levels of the program, make things easy to test and change.

More Information: [Difference Between Data Hiding and Encapsulation](https://techdifferences.com/difference-between-data-hiding-and-encapsulation.html)
