# Cohesion Notes

## Cohesion Introduction

Cohesion is the other area to focus on when we are talking about modularity. Cohesion is the measurement of how focused our module is on a single task. The more focused the module, the higher the cohesion.

With cohesion, higher is better. We want modules which only do one thing and one thing only. The reason for this is with maintainability. Imagine if the entirety of Facebook was on a single file. This would be extremely hard to maintain. There would be millions of lines of code read through to fix a single bug.

Not only this, but we couldn't reuse that code anywhere. If however we have a module which "swaps two values in a database", then we can reuse that in other projects. If we are smart and build a set of really cohesive modules, we can use those modules as building blocks for our next project.

Our goal with modularity is to balance both coupling, and cohesion. A single file is not very cohesive, but it's perfect coupling. 1000 tiny 1 line modules which are linked to other modules are highly cohesive, but very tightly coupled. What we want to find is the point where we can maximize the effects of both. We want to create loose coupling, and high cohesion.

### Weak Cohesion

- Coincidental Cohesion: The tasks within the module are only linked because they are in the same module. This is the weakest form of cohesion. Here, the modules are completely random. There is nothing linking the tasks within a module, except the fact that they were simply put into the same file. A single file project would be an example of this. The only reason everything is in the same file, is because no additional files were created. Essentially there is no organization.

- Temporal Cohesion: The tasks within the module are only linked because events happen around the same time. Example a module which does:
  - Brush Teeth
  - Take Shower
  - Eat Breakfast
  - Wake Up

Here the tasks are only linked together because they happen in the morning. Past that, anything goes. An example in the computer world would be "do shutdown activities". In this command we could be doing server calls, shutting off physical machines, sending emails, updating the front end, etc. The list could include really anything. For this reason, it is weakly cohesive.

- Logical Cohesion: The tasks within the module are linked due to being in the same general category. With this level, we have begun to organize the modules a bit more. We have made general categories, and broken up the modules into these categories. Example:
  - Drive to Dallas
  - Fly to Dallas
  - Take Train to Dallas
  - Take Boat to Dallas

In the above example, the category here is "getting to Dallas". Flying and driving are completely and totally different however. Their implementations would involve entirely different sets of code.

If our module for example was "backup manager", then it still has a lot of wiggle room. In this controller we could be backing up user data, financial data, cache, cookies, and so on. Additionally we could be running commands that might have to do with backing up. Overall, this is still a weak form of cohesion.

### Medium Cohesion

- Procedural Cohesion: The order of execution passes from one command to the next. Here we have a relationship of time. This is different from temporal because the tasks are both linked, and essential for one another. There is an order by which these must be executed to work properly.
  - Spray car with Water
  - Fill out form
  - Scrub Car and Rinse
  - Dry off Car

You can see that drying off the car before we washed it wouldn't make too much sense. However, there isn't a direct link to task focus in this category. "Fill out form" is apart of the business process. It's true that it happens at this point in the procedure, but it's not as focused as we would like.

- Communicational Cohesion: When all tasks support the same input and output data. Here we start to organize by an important factor, data. We are now beginning to organize based on computer science related areas, instead of just "logical" areas. Example module:
  - Find author of article
  - Find date of article
  - Find length of article
  - Set content of article

Here we are accepting an article as input, and returning a value about that article as output. This module is very specified, dealing with only articles and their content.

- Sequential Cohesion: A combination of the previous two. When all tasks work in which the output data for one, is the input data for the next. With this, we have a procedure of tasks, and these tasks all share the same data. Example module:
  - Sand car body
  - Apply primer to car
  - Spray main coat to car
  - Spray clear coat to car

With this example, we take a car object and pass it into the first. After this task is complete, it takes the modified car and sends it to second. Then the car goes to the third, and finally to the last. In this process, the tasks are not only linked through a time requirement, they are also linked through a data requirement. The level of organization within the module has increased quite a bit from the start. However, we can still do better.

### Strong Cohesion

- Functional Cohesion: This is when all tasks within a module support activities needed for one, and only one problem-related task. In essence the module only does a single action. Examples (each are separate modules):
  - Determine monthly payment
  - Compute intercept of graphs
  - Backup user table

In these situations, the module is more like a large function. Just from looking at the name, you know exactly what the module is doing.

- Object Cohesion: This can either be lumped in with functional cohesion, or by itself. Object cohesion is when all activities modify a single object.

This only works in object-oriented languages. An example might be a module which only modifies a user object. All tasks within this module update the user module in some way.

## Cohesion Conclusion

Cohesion is really important to make code which is easy to understand and maintain. The more focused the modules, the easier the code will be to debug.

Remember however, that this must be a balance with coupling. A group of extremely cohesive modules might also be tightly coupled together. We are looking for the balance between the two. If you remember one thing from these sections, it's that we want "loose coupling, and strong cohesion".
