# Implementation Notes

## Implementation Introduction

Implementation is the step where we actually begin coding our project. We have detailed what objectives the system should meet, have come up with a good design, and are now ready to begin coding.

This process is going to be very specialized on what the system calls for. A website, iPhone app, server OS, desktop app, and eCommerce store will all be entirely different projects. Because of this, in this section I want to focus more on the theory about implementation and deployment. If you want to learn more about the technology that will solve your problem specifically, I might suggest looking up a specific course here on Udemy. There are many great options out there for just about anything.

## Implementation Overview

### Programmer Care

The number one thing to understand when building software is to take care of your engineers/programmers. When a programmer starts to get tired, their code quality decreases. This decrease in quality can attribute to poor architecture, design, and overall code. This introduces the idea of "technical debt".

Technical debt is a corner cut now, that will cost up to 10x the effort later on. So a 1 hour corner cut now, could cost 10 hours of work down the road. We want to prevent this as much as possible. Imagine if we gained 10 hours of technical debt every week over the course of a 26 week build. That would total to 260 hours of bad work. This means we could be looking at 2600 hours, or 325 WORKDAYS of effort to fix those problems.

We have to remember that 35 hours a week of programming can be just as productive as 70 hours when we factor in technical debt.

### Coding Principals

- Use a style guide, so all the code looks generally the same.
- Code is written for people, not computers.
- Make modules easy to learn and understand.
- Go into everything with a plan. (You can experiment, but clean up after)
- Shorter code does not equal better code! MAKE IT READABLE.
- Break up actions into methods.

More Information: [10 Basic Programming Principles Every Programmer Must Know](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/basic-programming-principles/)

### Buy Vs. Build

Good design allows us to see our entire project before it is built. With this, we can decide which areas we want to build, and which areas we want to purchase. The great thing about purchasing code is that it is almost always cheaper.

Imagine a company which develops a subsystem to sell. They spend 3000 man hours building it. At a rate of $40 an hour, they would have spent $12,000 developing the software. If we wanted to build the same thing, we could expect the same outcome in cost.

However, this company wouldn't sell it at $12,000. They have the benefit of being able to sell it over and over and over again. Because of this, they might sell it at say $500. They only need 24 sales to break even, and we save $11,500 through purchasing it.

It's almost always a win-win situation to purchase instead of build. Coding however is usually very specific. This makes it rare to find software that perfectly fits the problem. However, do some research before you begin building, you can save a lot of money.

More Information: [Build vs. Buy: Developing The Big Picture Approach](https://clevertap.com/blog/build-vs-buy/)
