# Deployment Notes

## Deployment Overview

Deployment is the time when we take our program, and deploy it to it's final location. So if it's a website, this is the point we make it public to all. Deployment is an interesting part of the software development process. It comes after testing, but must be planned out, typically before implementation. To get it correct, we must also typically program it a certain way, meaning it also fits into the implementation section.

The level of planning here directly relates to how large the scope of the deployment is. If we are deploying the system for the first time, a lot of planning needs to take place. If we are applying a really small bug patch, then we don't need as much planning.

Deployment should always be designed with the idea of retreat. If something goes wrong, how can we revert. During the initial deployment, this plan might be to take the product back offline. If however we are running a website like Amazon, we will have to do a bit more planning. If we accidentally break the website, we need the fastest plan possible to return the site to it's previous version.

## Deployment Rollback

This process of retreat is officially known as "rollback". We look for the point of no return. This is the single point where it takes longer to go back, than it does to just continue with the deployment.

Knowing this point of no return helps us make the decision to rollback, or continue forward. When planning our rollback, we should have key points during the process. At each of these points, we will need to make the decision of whether we rollback, or continue forward.

If a fatal error comes up at any point, even right before completion, we need a plan to get back to the previous version. Maybe this plan entails switching to a backup server, or undoing changes, or having a hybrid version of the two updates running together. Whatever it is, we need to have it planned out beforehand.
