# Agile Notes

## Agile Introduction

Agile is a methodology. It's a way of thinking. It is NOT a model in and of itself.

Agile was invented because the scope of software development was changing. Waterfall methods aren't bad, they're just slow, and not built for a lot of modern problems.

This is largely due to the complexity of modern systems which make them hard to plan 100%. This means at some point, a change will be required, and production will stop until all the documents are updated.

With agile however, we can move a little bit quicker. We are constantly looking for and adjusting to change.

## Agile Manifesto

The agile manifesto is a set of guiding principles for agile development. They are:

- Individuals and interactions over process and tools.
- Working software over comprehensive documentation.
- Customer collaboration over contract negotiation.
- Responding to change over following a plan.

With this set of rules, all agile models are created. Note, in here we aren't throwing out processes and tools, and we aren't going without a plan. We are simply just creating priorities within the development process. We want to make the piece of software that is needed. To do this, we need to keep communication channels open and collaborate with all involved.

Through this manifesto, models were created that fit these rules.

## Agile Models

### Scrum

Scrum is focused on sprints. Sprints are these 1-4 week production cycles. We take the software, come up with a goal of where we want it to be, and then build it to there.

Once we finish a sprint, we then go back to the stakeholders, show them the software, take suggestions, and move on to the next sprint.

All of this allows us to stay flexible. We are communicating with the stakeholders almost every 2 weeks with this model. This means we are constantly able to take those suggestions and change the direction of development.

Just because scrum is Agile doesn't mean it's not structured. With scrum we typically have many assigned roles.

- Product Owner: In charge of what needs to be done in what manner. Takes inputs from all the stakeholders and helps come up with a prioritization list of what needs to be accomplished next.

- Scrum Master: Holds team liable to scrum ideas. Facilitates meetings and conflict resolution.

- Team: The team building the software. Might be composed of engineers, designers, architects, etc.

More Info: [Scrum 101: An Introduction to Scrum Project Management](https://zenkit.com/en/blog/scrum-101-an-introduction-to-scrum-project-management/)

### Kanban

The kanban system is one of optimization. With kanban, we are trying to analyze the flow of production and figure out the slowdowns.

To do this, we usually use some sort of visual flowchart. We break the project up into tasks and fill up the chart. We are then able to see if any part of production has a slowdown. Maybe for example, our review process is slowing us down, or maybe it's planning.

With kanban, we are trying to make small adjustments into the right direction. We want to work with the existing process, not replace it.

More info: [Kanban 101: Learn the Basics](https://leankit.com/learn/kanban/kanban-101-learn-the-basics/)

### Lean Startup

Lean startup is a way of testing out the market before spending on development. Here we create a MVP (Minimum Viable Product) to see if there is interest in the product we are developing.

Production costs a lot of money. It would be really bad if we spent $500,000 on a project, just to figure out that nobody is actually interested in that product.

An example of this would be to build a website that sells a certain product. Get it working to the point where people can place that item into a cart. Then when they go to purchase, have it give them a friendly message stating that this feature will be coming soon. We then track how many people are actually interested in buying products off our website.

If we have a lot of interest, then we are good to go ahead with production. If we don't have as much interest, then maybe we need to rethink our design.

More Info: [The Lean Startup Methodology](http://theleanstartup.com/principles)
